feat(blog): Migrating From WordPress to Gatsby (#12655)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2019-03-19-migrating-from-wordpress-to-gatsby/index.md

I've had quite a bit of experience with WordPress. Once I learned how to create a WordPress blog, I wrote [Developing a WordPress Theme from Scratch](https://www.taniarascia.com/developing-a-wordpress-theme-from-scratch/), a post that has had millions of hits, hundreds of comments, made me plenty of friends, and launched my blogging career. I also worked as a WordPress developer for two years. For the past four years, the blog had been running on WordPress. It was as fast, as custom, and as free of plugins as I could possibly make it, but WordPress is cumbersome, and there's only so fast and pleasant to use you can make it.

After 10 days of obsessively working non-stop, I've finally migrated my site over to a [Gatsby](/)! You may notice the site is a little faster now:

> ![](./speed.png)

Reviewer: Can you add some alt text to the image that describes what's going on?

However, I realized that a static site generator like Gatsby utilizes the power of code/data splitting, pre-loading, pre-caching, image optimization, and all sorts of performance enhancements that would be difficult or impossible to do with straight HTML.

Since I primarily write JavaScript these days, I wanted an SSG that runs on Node.js, and if it uses React, even better. I tested out a few sites that run on Gatsby and yeah - they were fast. Blazingly fast.

### A few things I really like about Gatsby

- **No page reloads** - this site is now a SPA (single page app), and clicking on any internal page from within the website doesn't need to load a completely new resource
- **Image optimization** - all the images are automatically stripped of metadata, optimized, resized, lazy-loaded, and compressed
- **Pre-fetch resources** - Gatsby detects what links are available on a given page and loads that data into the cache
- **Bundling and minification** - code is minified, bundled, and served

> - **No server side rendering**

Reviewer: Gatsby does server rendering though...?

Reviewer 2: It prerenders to build and deliver static assets. @DSchau 	how do you normally like to make this distinction.

Reviewer 3: Gatsby does server-side rendering at build time.

It doesn't _require_ a Node.js server (e.g. like Next.js does), which saves a lot of 🤑.

```suggestion
- **Server-side rendered, at build time** Gatsby builds optimized static assets, which can be hosted anywhere!
```

I should mention I moved my host to [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), which has been a great experience. I really can't say enough positive things about them. I've been highly impressed with how quick and easy it is to set up and deploy my new site.

## My Migration Process

I've been putting off migrating to a static site for months and months, because I knew it would be a huge time sink, obsession, and a lot of work. I had over 100 guides and tutorials to migrate, and in the end I was able to move everything in 10 days, so it was far from the end of the world.

If you've been thinking about moving your blog from WordPress to a static site but have been putting it off due to fear of how long it will take and how much work it will be, I highly recommend giving it a shot. I'll give you the basics of what I did in case you also want to make the switch.

- First, I downloaded the XML from WordPress in the **Tools -> Export** section.
- I used the [ExitWP](https://github.com/thomasf/exitwp) tool to convert the XML to Markdown. This did about 50% of the work of converting the posts.

> - I converted tables to markdwon with the [HTML to Markdown Table Converter](https://jmalarcon.github.io/markdowntables/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I converted tables to markdown with the [HTML to Markdown Table Converter](https://jmalarcon.github.io/markdowntables/).
```

- I manually saved all my thumbnails and moved them to a thumbnails folder so I could reuse them easily across multiple posts.
- I created a new night mode using [React Context API](/blog/2019-01-31-using-react-context-api-with-gatsby/) as a wrapper.
- I migrate all comments from WordPress to Disqus with the [Disqus manual importer](https://help.disqus.com/import-export-and-syncing/importing-comments-from-wordpress).

You can [view the source of the completed website](https://github.com/taniarascia/taniarascia.com).

From there it was just a matter of building out all the pages, learning enough GraphQL to make the proper queries, and doing a lot of small cleanup and tweaks.

## Conclusion

It took a bit of work, but the [taniarascia.com](https://www.taniarascia.com) blog is now built with React, Node.js and Gatsby, and hosted on Netlify. I feel great that all of my posts are now safely saved in version control and markdown. It's a relief for me to know that they're no longer an HTML mess inside of a MySQL database, but markdown files which are easy to read, write, edit, share, and backup.

> There is a good amount of prerequisite knowlegde required to set up a Gatsby site - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, Node.js development environment, React, and GraphQL are the major ones. If you're a complete beginner to all of these technologies, setting up a Gatsby blog might be a bit of a challenge. However, the [Gatsby Getting Started Tutorial](/tutorial/) is a complete step-by-step guide that covers most of these topics, and is a great choice for an intermediate developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a good amount of prerequisite knowledge required to set up a Gatsby site - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ES6, Node.js development environment, React, and GraphQL are the major ones. If you're a complete beginner to all of these technologies, setting up a Gatsby blog might be a bit of a challenge. However, the [Gatsby Getting Started Tutorial](/tutorial/) is a complete step-by-step guide that covers most of these topics, and is a great starting point.
```
We should encourage all developers to give it a shot, at least!
